# .NET Auth Identity Example with IdentityServer4 and .NET Core Identity

This solution demonstrates two OAuth flows that could be of interest for those creating
a service-based architecture with Single Page Applications (SPAs) or Mobile clients. This material
is adopted from IdentityServer4 documentation as well as .NET Architecture repository
`eShopOnContainers`.

The sample APIs are based on Produce (like vegetables, fruits, etc.), just as an example.

Below you'll find two authentication/authorization flows.

1. **Service-to-Service communication** - one microservice wants to access another's endpoints, but endpoints
are protected by an identity server (OAuth) - the `Client Credentials` Grant Type (flow)
2. **Single-Page App (SPA) to API** - i.e. React, Angular, Vue - SPA wants to access downstream API but endpoints are 
protected by an identity server (OAuth) - the [`Code` Grant Type](https://developer.okta.com/blog/2018/04/10/oauth-authorization-code-grant-type)

## Service Blueprint

Here is the layout of the services in this solution

| Service Name | Port | Port Type |
| -------- | -------- | -------- |
| Identity API | 5000     | `https`     |
| Identity API | 5001     | `http`     |
| Produce API | 5005     | `https`     |
| Produce API | 5006     | `http`     |
| React App Client | 5010     | `https`     |
| React App Client | 5011     | `http`     |

## Authorization Flow 1: Client Credentials

OAuth 2 Client Credentials flow is geared mostly towards service-to-service communication, since
client id and client secret is embedded in the client as well as the auth service.

[Detailed description of the flow here](https://auth0.com/docs/flows/concepts/client-credentials)

Within this solution, client credential flow is used like so:

Identity.API is up and running on `:5000`,
Produce API is up and running on `:5005`

1. `ClientCredentialsFlow.Client` wants to access the Produce API but the resources are protected
2. `Identity.API` has `Produce.API` registered as a protected resource, and it has [allowed Client Credentials Grant Type (:35)](src\Identity.API\Config.cs) on this API.
All it requires is that connecting clients know `ClientID` and `ClientSecret`
3. `Produce.API` registered `Identity.API` as its identity server, and when a request for a protected resource comes through, the identity server is pinged with proper token.
If not provided, the resource request is rejected.
4. `ClientCredentialsFlow.Client` now turns to `Identity.API` and asks about its endpoints
5. `ClientCredentialsFlow.Client` finds the right endpoint to ask for a Bearer token
6. `ClientCredentialsFlow.Client`, now having a Bearer token, turns to the `Produce.API` and asks for the protected
resource again, but this time with `Authorization: Bearer [token]` in the HTTP request header.
7. `ClientCredentialsFlow.Client` is now able to view the protected resource of the `Produce.API`

## Authorization Flow 2: Code

OAuth 2 Code (Implicit) flow is geared towards single page applications or other
clients that have user navigation and authorization flow.

Within this solution, the code flow is used like so:

`Identity.API` is up and running on `5000`,
`Produce.API` is up and running on `5005`
`Produce.SPA` is up and running on `5010`

1. `Produce.SPA` (Single Page App written in React) wants to access `Produce.API` endpoints, but they are protected
via the `Authorize` attribute. `Produce.API` is hooked up to `Identity.API` as its authority on who has access and 
who does not.
2. `Produce.SPA` needs a Bearer token to talk to `Produce.API`, and it can get it from `Identity.API`, so all it has to
do is ask for a new token (i.e. authorize). In the SPA (Single Page App), this is done via redirect to the Identity
server for login.
3. Once the user has logged in on the Identity Server, the user is redirected back to the original SPA, but with a token
in hand.
4. The SPA will now handle the token, and is able to make requests on behalf of the user, to the `Produce.API` which
allows the user to fetch its resources.

### How the components are wired up

`Produce.SPA` 

- Has Identity Server hooked up (`Startup.cs`) with `ProduceAPI` resource as its requested resource
- Has CORS policy for itself hooked up (`Startup.cs`)

`Produce.API`

- Has Identity Server JWT bearer (`Startup.cs`) with `ProduceAPI` as its identifier.
- Has CORS policy `Produce.SPA` hooked up (`Startup.cs`)

`Identity.API`

- Has list of APIs it's managing hooked up (`Config.cs:24`)
- Has list of grant types it supports (`Config.cs:32`) -- Code grant type is of interest in this case

---

## Identity API service

Using [IdentityServer4](http://docs.identityserver.io/en/latest/index.html) - OpenID and OAuth2 framework for ASP.NET Core

By default, the database is SQLite and is autogenerated as part of the dotnet template. The file
to reference is `app.db` in the root directory.

```bash
# Run database migrations
dotnet ef database update --project .\src\Identity.API
```

## Creating from scratch

```bash
dotnet new sln --name DotNetAuthIdentityExample

# Install IdentityServer4 templates
dotnet new -i IdentityServer4.Templates

# Create Identity service with IdentityServer4 + ASP.NET Core Identity frameworks
dotnet new is4aspid --name Identity.API --output .\src\Identity.API

# Add Identity service to solution
dotnet sln DotNetAuthIdentityExample.sln add .\src\Identity.API\Identity.API.csproj

# Create an API <-- this is the protected API guarded by the identity service
dotnet new webapi --name ProduceAPI --output .\src\Produce.API

# Add API to solution
dotnet sln DotNetAuthIdentityExample.sln add src\Produce.API

# Add a demonstrational client for Client Credentials flow
dotnet new console --name ClientCredentialsFlow.Client --output .\src\ClientCredentialsFlow.Client
dotnet sln DotNetAuthIdentityExample.sln add src\ClientCredentialsFlow.Client
dotnet add .\src\ClientCredentialsFlow.Client\ClientCredentialsFlow.Client.csproj package IdentityModel

# Add a demonstrational React Single Page App for Implicit flow (aka SPA flow)
dotnet new react --name Produce.SPA --output .\src\Produce.SPA
dotnet sln DotNetAuthIdentityExample.sln add src\Produce.SPA\Produce.SPA.csproj
dotnet add .\src\Produce.SPA\Produce.SPA.csproj package IdentityServer4.AccessTokenValidation
```